Provide a document that describes the Reward Calculation (#5160)
input-output-hk/cardano-ledger: docs/reward-calculation/HowRewardCalculationWorks.md

# How Reward Calculation Works

> This document explains how the Reward Caluculation is implemented in the Cardano Ledger. We strongly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document explains how the Reward Calculation is implemented in the Cardano Ledger. We strongly
```

Author: done

suggest the reader read and understand chapter 11 "Rewards and the Epoch Boundary" in the 
[Shelley Spec](https://github.com/intersectmbo/cardano-ledger/releases/latest/download/shelley-ledger.pdf) that
covers related material on the phases of the reward cycle.

1) Random selection of the pool operators who will be assigned the opportunity to mint the blocks in the next Epoch.

>    Each block is assigned a single random StakePool, with likelyhood proportional to the stake delegated to that StakePool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Each block is assigned a single random StakePool, with likelihood proportional to the stake delegated to that StakePool.
```

   This proportion is called the Stake Distribution, and can change with each applied transaction, but the one used here
   is a SnapShot taken at the end of the last Epoch.

> 2) Registration (using certificates) of User's Stake credentials and StakePools can tke place in the same

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2) Registration (using certificates) of User's Stake credentials and StakePools can take place in the same
```

   Epoch that the StakePools are assigned blocks. Only registered Users and
   StakePools participate in the Reward Calculation. 

> 3) Snap shots are taken at the end of this Epoch, remembering 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3) Snapshots are taken at the end of this Epoch, remembering 
```

     - the current registration status of Users and StakePools.
     - the Stake Distribution used for selection of which StakePools will make blocks in the next epoch
     - the Fee Pot
     - other data that cannot change over the Reward Calulation
   when the Reward Calculation is computed.

> 4) The calulation begins, using the 4 steps outlined below, resulting in a RewardUpdate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4) The calculation begins, using the 4 steps outlined below, resulting in a RewardUpdate.
```

5) The Reward Update is applied to the current NewEpochState, distributing Rewards to those stake credentials
   that were registered to StakePools, and only where the corresponding StakePool was registered as a pool operator.

> The Reward system works as follows. Whenever a transaction is applied to the system, the transaction author has the opportunity

Reviewer 2: "Whenever a transaction is applied to the system" is a bit confusing - as if they have to do something after creating the transaction?  Maybe something like "With every transaction" instead? 
```suggestion
The Reward system works as follows. With every transaction, the author has the opportunity
```

Author: done

to delegate the `Stake` (the `Coin` part of each `TxOut` in the transaction) to one of the `StakePools`
by adding a non null `StakeReference` to the `Addr` part of the `Output`

> Once an `Epoch`, registered, delegated stake is rewarded by increasing the amount of `Coin` associated

Reviewer: "Once an `Epoch`, registered,"

I couldn't understand this part of the phrase, as if something was missing.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps it means: 
```suggestion
Once every `Epoch`, registered and delegated stake is rewarded by increasing the amount of `Coin` associated
```

```
-- | A TxOut can be made in every Era using this function, other functions can 
--   add other (non staking) features to the TxOut
mkBasicTxOut :: Addr -> Value era -> TxOut era

data StakeReference
  = StakeRefBase !(Credential 'Staking)
  | StakeRefPtr !Ptr  -- Ptr are no longer allowed in the Conway and later Eras
  | StakeRefNull

data Addr
  = Addr Network (Credential 'Payment) StakeReference
  | AddrBootstrap BootstrapAddress  -- Bootstrap Addr have an implicit `StakeRefNull` StakeReference
                                    -- No (Credential `Staking) are delegated in a Bootstrap Addr

data RewardAccount = RewardAccount
  { raNetwork :: !Network
  , raCredential :: !(Credential 'Staking)
  }

```  

In order for rewards to be paid, the (Credential 'Staking) must be associated with two things

1. A `(KeyHash 'StakePool)`. The hash of the entity that will pay the reward
2. A `RewardAccount`. Information about where to store the reward

The `StakePool` must also be associated with a Pool operator for rewards to be paid.

These associations are created by registering the Credential and the StakePool using various

> Certificates, that are part of the current (or earlier) tansactions that were applied to the system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Certificates, that are part of the current (or earlier) transactions that were applied to the system.
```

2. The set of staking cerdentials has millions of entries
3. The number of stake pools numbers in the thousands.

In order to address this problem the reward calculation uses several strategies.

1. Use incremental computation to compute the changes to the UTxO and total coin for each StakeReference 
in lock step, so step one is not necessary. We call this the "InstantStake" calculation, as it computes
two different things (both stored in the UTxOState) simultaneously 
     - The InstantStake `(Map (Credential 'Staking) Coin)
     - The UTxO

There are strong invariants that must be maintained between these two maps.   

2. Spread the calculation over several Epochs, perhaps computing each part at one Epoch boundary, and delaying
the actual payment for 2, 3 , or 4 Epochs. This is what is discussed in chapter 11 "Rewards and the Epoch Boundary" in the 
[Shelley Spec](https://github.com/intersectmbo/cardano-ledger/releases/latest/download/shelley-ledger.pdf) Shelley Spec.

  

3. Structure expensive computation into many pure steps that can be started and stopped when the node is otherwise idle.
   we call this pulsing, and it two must have many invariants.

>      - It must be a pure compuation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - It must be a pure computation
```

       computation from the last checkpoint.
     - it must compute the same result as if we ran it all at once, not braking it into many starts and stops. 

We look closely at each of these strategies in turn, studying the data structures and algorithms that implement them.

## The InstantStake strategy.

This strategy computes the InstantStake `(Map (Credential 'Staking) Coin)` and the `UTxO` simultaneously.
It is an instance of incremental computation, as the InstantStake is a pure function of the `UTxO`.
It works by observing every change to the `UTxO`, and if that change could alter the `InstantStake`, it makes
corresponding changes to the InstantStake that keep the two in lockstep. The `UTxO` and the `InstantStake` are 
both fields in the `UTxOState`. 

```
data UTxOState era = UTxOState
  { utxosUtxo :: !(UTxO era)
  , utxosDeposited :: !Coin
  , utxosFees :: !Coin
  , utxosGovState :: !(GovState era)
  , utxosInstantStake :: !(InstantStake era)
  , utxosDonation :: !Coin
  }
```  

A valid (or self-consistent) `UTxOState{utxosUtxo, utxosDeposited , utxosFees  , utxosGovState, utxosInstantStake, utxosDonation}`

> maintains an invariant between the `utxosUtxo` and `utxosInstantStake` fields. The u`txosInstantStake` field is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
maintains an invariant between the `utxosUtxo` and `utxosInstantStake` fields. The `utxosInstantStake` field is
```

```
updateUTxOState pp utxos txBody certState govState depositChangeEvent txUtxODiffEvent = do
  let UTxOState {utxosUtxo, utxosDeposited, utxosFees, utxosDonation} = utxos
      UTxO utxo = utxosUtxo
      !utxoAdd = txouts txBody -- These will be inserted into the UTxO
      {- utxoDel  = txins txb ◁ utxo -}
      !(utxoWithout, utxoDel) = extractKeys utxo (txBody ^. inputsTxBodyL)
      {- newUTxO = (txins txb ⋪ utxo) ∪ outs txb -}
      newUTxO = utxoWithout `Map.union` unUTxO utxoAdd
      deletedUTxO = UTxO utxoDel
  depositChangeEvent depositChange
  txUtxODiffEvent deletedUTxO utxoAdd
  pure $!
    UTxOState
      { utxosUtxo = UTxO newUTxO
      , utxosInstantStake =
          deleteInstantStake deletedUTxO (addInstantStake utxoAdd (utxos ^. instantStakeL))
      }
```      

##  Spread the calculation over several Epochs

This strategy follows the advice, if you can't do it in one `Epoch` then do it in four.
It exploits that over an Epoch (approximately 5 days) most nodes are mostly idle. Use some of this idle time
between `Epoch` boundaries to things that cannot do in the few second time budget at the `Epoch` boundary.

> Also if you spead it over n-`Epoch`s you have n-(few second budgets) to work with. The complication is that

Reviewer 2: Is this related to the `stability window` ?  If so, would it be worth mentioning the concept, so it's possible to look this concept up in other places?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Also if you spread it over n-`Epoch`s you have n-(few second budgets) to work with. The complication is that
```

computation depends on the state of the system at the beginning of the Reward Calculation, and that state
changes many times in the course of n-`Epochs`. This requires the use of Snapshots, making temporary copies
of things at the beginning of the calculation, that cannot change, as the rest of the system progresses.

> It also means the Reward calulation must be pipelined, and that requires a queue of SnapShots (Mark, Set, Go).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It also means the Reward calculation must be pipelined, and that requires a queue of SnapShots (Mark, Set, Go).
```

# Introduction

This document explains how the Reward Calculation is implemented in the Cardano Ledger. We strongly
suggest the reader read and understand chapter 11 "Rewards and the Epoch Boundary" in the 
[Shelley Spec](https://github.com/intersectmbo/cardano-ledger/releases/latest/download/shelley-ledger.pdf) that
covers related material on the phases of the reward cycle. The Reward Calculation has 5 parts.

# How The Reward Calculation might work if time did not matter

> Rewards are analagous to interest on a bank account. If you deposit funds in a bank account, peroidically the bank pays you a percentage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rewards are analogous to interest on a bank account. If you deposit funds in a bank account, periodically the bank pays you a percentage
```

Author: done

of the amount on deposit as interest. So over time your account balance grows.

In the Cardano Ledger, the UTxO plays the role of bank accounts, and the pool operators play the role of banks. Pools make money by

> making blocks on the chain. For each block they make, they get a fixed percent of the fees collected for proceessing the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
making blocks on the chain. For each block they make, they get a fixed percentage of the fees collected for processing the
```

Author: done

> tranasactions that make up the block. The probability that a pool is chosen to make a block, is proportional to the amount

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transactions that make up the block. The probability that a pool is chosen to make a block, is proportional to the amount
```

Author: done

of Coin in the UTxO that has been delegated to that pool. So it is in the interest of each Pool to entice the owners of UTxO entries

> to delegate the Coin in their UTxO entries to that Pool, inorder to increase their percentage of the total delagated Coin. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to delegate the Coin in their UTxO entries to that Pool, in order to increase their percentage of the total delegated Coin. 
```

Author: done

The enticement is the promise of Rewards to the UTxO entry owners that delegate to their Pool. 

> The actual amount of rewards is compute by a computation that involves PoolParameters that can be set differently by each pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actual amount of rewards is computed by a computation that involves PoolParameters that can be set differently by each pool.
```

Author: done

> Rewards are paid at each epoch boundaries. An epoch is roughly 5 days, so rewards are paid out about every 5 days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rewards are paid at each epoch boundary. An epoch is roughly 5 days, so rewards are paid out about every 5 days.
```

Author: done

What data must be available to compute rewards.

1. The UTxO. Each `UTxO` entry records 
      - The entry owner. This is a Haskell datatype (Credential 'Staking), which is a cryptographic hash of the owner's identity
      - The amount of the entry in Coin. This is always non-zero and positive.
      - Staking information about which Pool (if any) the UTxO entry is delegated to. This may be deliberately left blank, or it is
        a Haskell datatype (KeyHash 'Pool), which is another cryptographic hash, this time of the Pool owner's identity
      - Other information not related to the Reward calculation

> 2. Information about which staking credentials are registered to particpate in staking, and which Pool they delegate to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Information about which staking credentials are registered to participate in staking, and which Pool they delegate to.
```

Author: done

This is a Haskell Datatype (Map (Credential 'Staking)  (KeyHash StakePool)), which we will call the `stakeDelegationMap`.
Only registered credentials will receive rewards.

3. Information about which pool operators are currently registered to operate pools, and the parameters under which the pools operate.

> This is a Haskell Datatype (Map (KeyHash StakePool) PoolParams), which we will call the `poolParamsMap` . Rewards for UTxO entrys delegated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a Haskell Datatype (Map (KeyHash StakePool) PoolParams), which we will call the `poolParamsMap` . Rewards for UTxO entries delegated
```

Author: done

to non registered Pools are distributed to either the Treasury or the Reserves.

4. Information about which pools are currently scheduled to retire, and when.
This is a Haskell Datatype (Map (KeyHash StakePool) EpochNo), which we will call the `retiringMap` .

If time was not an issue, at the end of each epoch, we would compute the rewards in several steps. For each step, we either give 
a link to the Ledger code base where that code is illustrated, or we give a short Haskell function that illustrates 
how it might be computed in the ShelleyEra. Other eras would be very similar, but the TxOut for that Era would have more
fields than just the Addr and Coin.

> 1. Aggregate the total `Coin` in the `UTxO` for each (Credential 'Staking) that appears some where in the UTxO, resulting in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Aggregate the total `Coin` in the `UTxO` for each (Credential 'Staking) that appears somewhere in the UTxO, resulting in
```

Author: done

that each (Credential 'Staking) and (KeyHash 'StakePool) are currently registered, to make a valid Reward.
[Source code for computing a Reward from Coin and PoolParam values.](https://github.com/IntersectMBO/cardano-ledger/blob/a7fb33a2b2922933eb6dd7e2420363291f6d4903/eras/shelley/impl/src/Cardano/Ledger/Shelley/Rewards.hs#L260)  
[Source code for `rewardStakePoolMember`](https://github.com/IntersectMBO/cardano-ledger/blob/a7fb33a2b2922933eb6dd7e2420363291f6d4903/eras/shelley/impl/src/Cardano/Ledger/Shelley/RewardUpdate.hs#L251)

5. Apply the Rewards to the `rewardsBalanceMap`, increasing the balance for each Credential.
[Source code for applying the Rewards](https://github.com/IntersectMBO/cardano-ledger/blob/a7fb33a2b2922933eb6dd7e2420363291f6d4903/eras/shelley/impl/src/Cardano/Ledger/Shelley/LedgerState/IncrementalStake.hs#L97)

The problem is, as time passes the `UTxO`, the `stakeDelegationMap`, and the `poolParamsMap` are subject to change when a new Block is made.
So unless the whole calculation can be completed in the time between the last block in an epoch and the first block in the next

> epoch, the calulations could be inaccurate. That is why we snap shot those values, before we begin computing the Rewards. The time to complete the reward calculation is currently in the order of many 10's of seconds, and the time to distribute the rewards several seconds. The time between blocks is an order of magnitude smaller than that, so we must resort to strategies that compute and apply the rewards in parallel with the progress

Reviewer: ```suggestion
epoch, the calculations could be inaccurate. That is why we snap shot those values, before we begin computing the Rewards. The time to complete the reward calculation is currently in the order of many 10's of seconds, and the time to distribute the rewards several seconds. The time between blocks is an order of magnitude smaller than that, so we must resort to strategies that compute and apply the rewards in parallel with the progress
```

Author: done

of block production.

# How Reward Calculation Works in the implementation

1) Random selection of the pool operators who will be assigned the opportunity to mint each block in the next Epoch.
   Each block is assigned a single random StakePool, with likelihood proportional to the stake delegated to that StakePool.
   This proportion is called the Stake Distribution, which can change with each applied transaction.
   To get a stable Stake Distribution we need to make a Snapshot at the point in the Epoch, 
   when all blocks have been assigned a StakePool. This point is called the stability point, 
   as no assignment will change from this point to the end of the block. So the idea

>    is to take a snapshot anytime after the stability point, and use it in the the rest of the Reward Calculation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   is to take a snapshot anytime after the stability point, and use it in the rest of the Reward Calculation.
```

Author: done

2) Registration (using certificates) of User's Stake credentials and StakePools can take place in the same
   Epoch that the StakePools are assigned blocks. Only registered Users and
   StakePools participate in the Reward Calculation. 
3) Snapshots are taken at the end of this Epoch, remembering 
     - the current registration status of Users and StakePools.
     - the Stake Distribution used for selection of which StakePools will make blocks in the next epoch
     - the Fee Pot

>      - other data that cannot change over the Reward Calulation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - other data that cannot change over the Reward Calculation
```

Author: done

   when the Reward Calculation is computed.
4) The calculation begins, using the 4 steps outlined below, resulting in a RewardUpdate.
5) The Reward Update is applied to the current NewEpochState, distributing Rewards to those stake credentials
   that were registered to StakePools, and only where the corresponding StakePool was registered as a pool operator.

The Reward system works as follows. When constructing a new transaction, the transaction author has the opportunity
to delegate the `Stake` (the `Coin` part of each `TxOut` in the transaction) to one of the `StakePools`
by adding a non null `StakeReference` to the `Addr` part of the `Output`

> At the end of an `Epoch`, registered stake, that is delegated in a the address of a TxOut in the UTxO,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the end of an `Epoch`, registered stake, that is delegated in the address of a TxOut in the UTxO,
```

Author: done

is marked as deserving a reward in a `RewardUpdate`. Applying a `RewardUpdate`  means increasing the amount of `Coin` associated
with the `StakeCredential` in the Rewards map. This is similar to earning interest on

> the amount of money in a bank deposit. Here are the basic data stuctures that encode this information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the amount of money in a bank deposit. Here are the basic data structures that encode this information
```

Author: done

  , rewardPool :: !(KeyHash 'StakePool)    -- which Stakepool operator will pay this reward
  , rewardAmount :: !Coin                  -- the amount of the reward.
  }
```  

The Reward calculation has several parts

1. Sum the total `Coin` for each unique `StakeReference` in the `UTxO`

    ```
    UTxO era -> Map (Credential 'Staking) Coin
    ```

2. For each `StakePool` compute the set of `StakeReference` that delegate stake to that pool.

    ```
    Map (KeyHash 'StakePool) (Set (Credential 'Staking))
    ```

3. For each pool and each stake reference to that pool, compute a `Reward` for that reference

    ```
    Map (Credential 'Staking) (Set Reward)

4. Pay the rewards for every pool and stake reference
   
    ```
    Map (Credential 'Staking) (Set Reward) -> EpochState era -> EpochState era
    ````

## What makes it complicated and hard

The reward calculation takes place on the Epoch boundary, each node has at most several seconds to compute all 4 parts.
Using naive strategies to compute the four steps will far exceed few second budget available. 
The problem is that the amount of data is very large.

1. The UTxO has tens of millions of entries

> 2. The set of staking cerdentials has millions of entries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The set of staking credentials has millions of entries
```

Author: done

It is an instance of incremental computation, as the InstantStake is a pure function of the `UTxO`.
It works by observing every change to the `UTxO`, and if that change could alter the `InstantStake`, it makes
corresponding changes to the InstantStake that keep the two in lockstep. The `UTxO` and the `InstantStake` are 
both fields in the `UTxOState`. 

```
data UTxOState era = UTxOState
  { utxosUtxo :: !(UTxO era)
  , utxosDeposited :: !Coin
  , utxosFees :: !Coin
  , utxosGovState :: !(GovState era)
  , utxosInstantStake :: !(InstantStake era)
  , utxosDonation :: !Coin
  }
```  

A valid (or self-consistent) `UTxOState{utxosUtxo, utxosDeposited , utxosFees  , utxosGovState, utxosInstantStake, utxosDonation}`
maintains an invariant between the `utxosUtxo` and `utxosInstantStake` fields. The `utxosInstantStake` field is
the aggregation of Coin over the StakeReferences in the UTxO. It can be computed by a pure
function from the `utxosUtxo` field.  This is captured by the methods of class `EraStake` because the computations
are slightly different in Eras that support `Ptr` (Shelley, Allegra, Mary, Alonzo, Babbage) from Eras

> that do not support Ptr (Conway, Dikstra).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that do not support Ptr (Conway, Dijkstra).
```

```
class EraStake era
  where
  -- | This is the current stake in the system. The important part of this stake is that not all of
  -- it is active. Any stake credential that is not registred will not contribute to the active
  -- stake, however it will be part of the InstantStake. Throughout an epoch it is not relevant
  -- which part of the stake is active, because it is only when we take the snaphot that we resolve
  -- all the active stake.
  type InstantStake era = (r :: Type) | r -> era

  -- | Add new UTxO to the `InstantStake`. This is invoked for every new TxOut that is added to the
  -- ledger state
  addInstantStake :: UTxO era -> InstantStake era -> InstantStake era

  -- | Delete spent UTxO from the `InstantStake`. This is invoked for every TxOut that is removed
  -- from the ledger state
  deleteInstantStake :: UTxO era -> InstantStake era -> InstantStake era  
```

The invariant we need to maintain is

```
invariant :: UTxOState era -> Bool
invariant UTxOState{utxosUtxo, utxosDeposited , utxosFees  , utxosGovState, utxosInstantStake, utxosDonation} =

>     utxosInstantStake == addInstanrStake utxosUtxo mempty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    utxosInstantStake == addInstantStake utxosUtxo mempty
```

Author: done

and this is captured in one function `updateUTxOState`. Here is the function, with changes to
the non-(UTxO and InstantStake) fields elided for brevity.

```
updateUTxOState pp utxos txBody certState govState depositChangeEvent txUtxODiffEvent = do
  let UTxOState {utxosUtxo, utxosDeposited, utxosFees, utxosDonation} = utxos
      UTxO utxo = utxosUtxo
      !utxoAdd = txouts txBody -- These will be inserted into the UTxO
      {- utxoDel  = txins txb ◁ utxo -}
      !(utxoWithout, utxoDel) = extractKeys utxo (txBody ^. inputsTxBodyL)
      {- newUTxO = (txins txb ⋪ utxo) ∪ outs txb -}
      newUTxO = utxoWithout `Map.union` unUTxO utxoAdd
      deletedUTxO = UTxO utxoDel
  depositChangeEvent depositChange
  txUtxODiffEvent deletedUTxO utxoAdd
  pure $!
    UTxOState
      { utxosUtxo = UTxO newUTxO
      , utxosInstantStake =
          deleteInstantStake deletedUTxO (addInstantStake utxoAdd (utxos ^. instantStakeL))
      }
```      

We noted above that the type family InstantStake is different for different Eras. This is because
Eras before Conway supported `Ptr`s. A `Ptr` is a reference to an `Addr`, and aggregating the `Coin` for each

> Stake address must follow the reference. Unfortuantely, the references may change so the `InstantStake` for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stake address must follow the reference. Unfortunately, the references may change so the `InstantStake` for
```

Author: done

              ans
                { sisPtrStake = Map.alter (keepOrDeleteCompact cc) stakingPtr sisPtrStake -- Resolve the `Ptr`
                }
            Addr _ _ (StakeRefBase stakingKeyHash) -> -- 
              ans
                { sisCredentialStake = Map.alter (keepOrDeleteCompact cc) stakingKeyHash sisCredentialStake
                }
            _other -> ans
```            

So we see by using either `(+)` or `(-)` as the argument to `applyUTxOShelleyInstantStake` we can 
either remove `Coin` value from the aggregation, or add `Coin` value to the aggregation.

```
addShelleyInstantStake ::
  EraTxOut era => UTxO era -> ShelleyInstantStake era -> ShelleyInstantStake era
addShelleyInstantStake = applyUTxOShelleyInstantStake (coerce ((+) @Word64))

deleteShelleyInstantStake ::
  EraTxOut era => UTxO era -> ShelleyInstantStake era -> ShelleyInstantStake era
deleteShelleyInstantStake = applyUTxOShelleyInstantStake (coerce ((-) @Word64))

instance EraStake ShelleyEra where
  type InstantStake ShelleyEra = ShelleyInstantStake ShelleyEra
  addInstantStake = addShelleyInstantStake
  deleteInstantStake = deleteShelleyInstantStake
```  

> ### Conway Dikstra InstantStake

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Conway Dijkstra InstantStake
```

Author: done and one other occurrence as well.

The type family `InstantStake` for Eras after Babbage (that have no `Ptr`s)
is simpler, since it does not need the Map of `Ptrs` that need to be resolved.

```
newtype ConwayInstantStake era = ConwayInstantStake
  { cisCredentialStake :: Map.Map (Credential 'Staking) (CompactForm Coin)
  }
```

> The application function for `Conway` `functionapplyUTxOConwayInstantStake` is simliar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application function for `Conway` `functionapplyUTxOConwayInstantStake` is similiar
```

Author: done

instance EraStake ConwayEra where
  type InstantStake ConwayEra = ConwayInstantStake ConwayEra
  addInstantStake = addConwayInstantStake
  deleteInstantStake = deleteConwayInstantStake

```
##  Spread the calculation over several Epochs

This strategy follows the advice, if you can't do it in one `Epoch` then do it in four.
It exploits that over an Epoch (approximately 5 days) most nodes are mostly idle. Use some of this idle time
between `Epoch` boundaries to things that cannot do in the few second time budget at the `Epoch` boundary.
Also if you spread it over n-`Epoch`s you have n-(few second budgets) to work with. The complication is that
computation depends on the state of the system at the beginning of the Reward Calculation, and that state
changes many times in the course of the n-`Epochs`. This requires the use of Snapshots, making temporary copies
of things at the beginning of the calculation, that cannot change, as the rest of the system progresses.

It also means the Reward calculation must be pipelined, and that requires a queue of SnapShots (Mark, Set, Go).

##  Tools for breaking the calculation into many pure steps that can be started and stopped.

> The module `Data.Pulse` provovides a library for breaking a large computation to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The module `Data.Pulse` provides a library for breaking a large computation to 
```

Author: done
